Transmission electron microscopy is a microscopy technique which used a beam of highly accelerated electron to transmit through a very thin sample (< 100 nm) to form an image. The image formed based on the different interactions between the sample and the electron as the beam is transmitted through the sample. If the sample is crystalline, a part the electron beam undergoes diffraction by the atoms and the rest can pass through. By collecting either of the transmitted beam or the diffracted beam imaging in different modes can be done such as Bright field and Dark field mode. In the Figure 2, images corresponding to different modes are represented. In the bright field image (Figure 2b), transmitted electron beam is selected with the aperture, and the scattered electrons are blocked. As the transmitted electron beams are selected, the areas with higher mass appears with dark contrast whereas the areas with lower mass appear with bright contrast. As can be seen from the Figure 1b, which is a selected area diffraction pattern  (SADP), the bright most spot in the middle represents to the transmitted beam, whereas the weak spots are represents the planes in the sample from where the electron beams are diffracted. When the aperture is placed in the transmitted beam by tilting the beam itself, imaging can be done from the regions from where the beams are transmitted through. When, the imaging is done by placing the aperture over the diffracted spots just adjacent to the transmitted beam spot, only the diffracted beam is allowed through the aperture. Hence, the areas where there are no electron scattering and (e.g, the areas around the sample) will be black, while the areas with materials will appear bright (Figure 2c). This is referred to as dark field imaging mode. In the weak beam dark field imaging, the specimen is tilted to excite higher angle diffraction spots, and the aperture is placed on weak diffraction spots (preferably 3rd spot). As, the imaging is done using higher order diffraction spots, the images appear with darker contrast (Figure 2d).<br>
